DOC-5107 added Python hash search examples (#1454)
redis/docs: content/develop/clients/redis-py/queryjson.md

- oss
- kubernetes
- clients
description: Learn how to use the Redis query engine with JSON and hash documents.
linkTitle: Index and query documents
title: Index and query documents
weight: 30
---

This example shows how to create a
[search index]({{< relref "/develop/interact/search-and-query/indexing" >}})
for [JSON]({{< relref "/develop/data-types/json" >}}) documents and
run queries against the index. It then goes on to show the slight differences
in the equivalent code for [hash]({{< relref "/develop/data-types/hashes" >}})
documents.

## Initialize

> Make sure that you have [Redis Community Edition]({{< relref "/operate/rc" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you have [Redis Community Edition]({{< relref "/operate/oss_and_stack/" >}})
```

{{< clients-example py_home_json query3 >}}
{{< /clients-example >}}

## Differences with hash documents

Indexing for hash documents is very similar to JSON indexing but you
need to specify some slightly different options.

When you create the schema for a hash index, you don't need to
add aliases for the fields, since you use the basic names to access
the fields anyway. Also, you must use `HASH` for the `IndexType`
when you create the index. The code below shows these changes with
a new index called `hash-idx:users`, which is otherwise the same as
the `idx:users` index used for JSON documents in the previous examples.

{{< clients-example py_home_json make_hash_index >}}
{{< /clients-example >}}

You use [`hset()`]({{< relref "/commands/hset" >}}) to add the hash
documents instead of [`json().set()`]({{< relref "/commands/json.set" >}}),
but the same flat `userX` dictionaries work equally well with either
hash or JSON:

{{< clients-example py_home_json add_hash_data >}}
{{< /clients-example >}}

The query commands work the same here for hash as they do for JSON (but
the name of the hash index is different). The format of the result is

> also almost the same except that the fields are returned directly in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
almost the same except that the fields are returned directly in the
```
